I go to work every day get my check come
payday yet I'm always scraping the
bottom of the barrel at the end of the
month I'm sure a lot of you can relate
at least that's what my financial
situation looked like before I cracked
down and started saving up actually I
didn't really have to do much to see
more cash in my account each month I
didn't get a new job a raise or start
selling all my stuff or anything like
that the first thing I did was record
all my expenses from my rent to my
morning coffee treat on the way to work
and man was that a wake-up call seeing
it all written out in front of me in
black and white gave me a clear idea of
where my money was going and all the
unnecessary spending I did throughout
the month after her I'd recovered from
my initial shock I needed to put my
thinking cap on and start budgeting my
money accordingly planning and money go
together so I moved on to the next step
setting goals at the time I needed to
save enough money for our girls trip I
wanted to take with my friend to Hawaii
and that was a huge motivator because I
could just see myself on vacation
swimming taking pictures and having fun
my goal was to save $200 a month so I
wrote down how much I get paid how much
my rent is and all my set bills and
utilities that let me see how much money
I should be left with now so that $200
would be left of that I needed to start
spending on necessities like groceries
and personal care a lot more responsibly
to start off with I discovered the art
of cooking let me tell you it wasn't
easy when your stomachs growling and you
want food ASAP you naturally turn too
fast and ready food that's why they came
up with that stuff right but if you
break down all the ingredients in your
takeout order you'll see that if you
were to prepare the same meal yourself
you'd spend a quarter of the price I
used to spend $3 on my morning coffee $7
on my lunch and then on my way home from
work I'd either order takeout or spend
five to ten dollars
store to buy random ingredients and make
myself something quick and easy at home
none of that was good
not for my wallet or for my health so
something had to be done I started with
my morning Jo I bought myself a cute
little thermos brewed my coffee at home
and took it with me to work I started
preparing and packing a lunch too
sometimes I'll make myself something
easy like a sandwich or I'll take
leftovers from last night's dinner but
ditching the takeout and cooking at home
isn't enough you also need to plan your
meals so that you're not wasting money
and food for starters meal planners save
you time from wondering what you should
cook and you always have all your
ingredients for your meals at hand also
with a meal planner you'll be able to
avoid buying or cooking an excess amount
of food that you'll probably end up
throwing away part of meal planning is
going to the store with an exact list of
what you need I mean how many times have
you gone to the grocery store to buy
eggs Dan brought home pretty much
everything in the store except for the
eggs I know I certainly did it more
times than I can count so right after I
wrote down everything I was going to eat
that week in my planner I moved on to
the ingredients I wrote down what I
needed for breakfast lunch and dinner
I even included the spices I'd put in my
food because I wanted it to taste as
delicious as I imagined that way I
wouldn't end up with something barely
edible and heading down to the fast food
joint to fill my belly my shopping list
alongside my meal planner kept me
focused on buying only the ingredients I
needed for my food and a few of my
snacks but that's the thing you also
need to stick to the plan despite all
the temptation around me a whole aisle
for cookies are you kidding me I didn't
buy anything I didn't need or already
have in my house this saved me a lot of
money and I'm even eating healthier now
before I started planning my shopping
down to a tee I was spending around $80
a week on groceries after my little
savings experiment I've cut that number
in half okay sorry to go on so much
about food but
it's the biggest thing a lot of people
aren't careful enough with when it comes
to spending so let's get into the next
one water if you're a huge water drinker
first of all good for you because that's
already awesome and if not ditch the
soda and juices and switch to h2o you'll
be happy you did anyway I've been a
water guzzler for as long as I can
remember but like a lot of people I was
buying bottled water in bulk again huge
money waster so I got myself a water
filter that attaches to the faucet and I
fill up a reusable stainless steel
bottle throughout the day it is a small
investment if you get a good one
but you end up saving money in the long
run and the filters last four months I
used to spend about $5 a week on plastic
water bottles but now I'm spending that
same amount a month on clean filtered
water from the tap now let's talk about
personal expenses more specifically what
I did to reduce my spending on clothes
I'll admit it I try to keep up with the
trends at least I used to but that's
exactly what they are fads that come and
go so instead of buying unique clothes
that resembles some fashion editorial
most of which I'd wear once or twice and
then they'd end up in the back of my
closet to gather dust I switch to a
minimalistic classic style
I bought simple pieces with minimal
prints and color and here's why fashion
always circles around and some things
never go out of style jeans plain tees
some dress pants Blazers a little black
dress for special occasions there
forever
and sticking to simple patterns and
colors means I can make more outfits out
of fewer pieces instead of buying a
whole new outfit of course you could
consider done up nails as a sort of
cherry on top to a look so let me tell
you what I did there I was spending
about $50 a month to get my nails done
professionally I just thought it makes
me look more put together and I only
trusted a pro to do it but then I was
like I think I can achieve the same look
just by DIY knit with a $5 bottle of
nail polish that'll last for months
that's what I did and I saved myself an
extra fifty bucks a month and I don't
think I do too bad of a job on my nails
if I do say so myself
I don't even think people can tell a
difference on to skin care what is it
that I always end up with like three
different face washes a bunch of masks
and more moisturizers than any one
person needs I know you get where I'm
coming from
anyway the average woman spends 20 bucks
a month on skin care and I'd say I fit
that statistic or even surpass it so I
started making my own skin care products
using natural ingredients I make my own
hair mask with coconut castor and
avocado oil then I use once a week I
also created my own body scrub using
sugar honey and lemon I've ditched the
overpriced body creams and instead apply
a tiny bit of coconut oil on my skin
right after I get out of the shower it
works just as well
and it's way more cost-effective and
last but not least ditch your gym
membership if you have one I'm not
saying you should give up on exercising
and become one with the couch although
how tempting right just do your workouts
at home there are all kinds of apps and
videos online that make it more than
easy to keep a fitness routine right in
the comfort of your own home and you can
always go for a jog outside or do your
exercise in the park if staying at home
is too boring or your couch is way too
irresistible so that's it folks these
tips have helped me save the money I
need for my long awaited vacay in Hawaii
you're not stuck to them for over a year
now if I can do it then I'm sure you can
too and in case I missed anything please
leave your own money saving tips in the
comments below I'd love to know what you
do to keep your spending down and if you
learned something new today then give me
a like and share this video with your
friends but hey don't go anywhere just
yet we have over two thousand cool
videos for you to check out all you have
to do is pick the left or right video
click on it and enjoy stay on the bright
side of life